# Contributing

## Core Contributors / Maintainers

### Issues

Each individual task should be recorded as an issue on GitHub. This can occur after a meeting or when needed. Each issue associated with a task should be assigned to a team member, who is responsible for the completing the work on time.

Each task related issue should also be properly labeled for organization. It should also be assigned to a milestone and be put onto the project board.

Each core contributor should also be using issues for team communication in addition for assignment of tasks.

### Milestones

A milestone should be created for each week. All the relevant task related issues should be put into their proper milestones. Each core contributor should make sure that their issues were completed by the deadline for each milestone.

### Project Board

Each member of the group is responsible for using the project board for organization and for updating their progress to the rest of the group.

### Pull Requests

All core contributors should create pull requests for their work, and should not push their work directly to the main branch. Each pull branch should be reviewed by at least one member of the group before it is merged.


## External Contributors

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given.

### Types of Contributions

#### Report Bugs

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

* Your operating system name and version.
* Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
* Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.

#### Fix Bugs

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" and "help
wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

#### Implement Features

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement"
and "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

#### Write Documentation

You can never have enough documentation! Please feel free to contribute to any
part of the documentation, such as the official docs, docstrings, or even
on the web in blog posts, articles, and such.

#### Submit Feedback

If you are proposing a feature:

* Explain in detail how it would work.
* Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
* Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions
  are welcome :)

### Get Started!

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up `text_processing_util_mds24` for local development.

1. Download a copy of `text_processing_util_mds24` locally.
2. Install `text_processing_util_mds24` using `poetry`:

    ```console
    $ poetry install
    ```

3. Use `git` (or similar) to create a branch for local development and make your changes:

    ```console
    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature
    ```

4. When you're done making changes, check that your changes conform to any code formatting requirements and pass any tests.

5. Commit your changes and open a pull request.

### Pull Request Guidelines

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include additional tests if appropriate.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated.
3. The pull request should work for all currently supported operating systems and versions of Python.

### Code of Conduct

Please note that the `text_processing_util_mds24` project is released with a
Code of Conduct. By contributing to this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## Attribution

This `CONTRIBUTING.md` file is adapted from and contains content from the equivalent file generated by [cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
